How does a strand of DNA become the sticky glue
that holds sand together? It happens in three steps.
First, the gene is copied into a short-lived message called messenger R-N-A.
This copy does not last — it is made and destroyed constantly.
That message is then read to build the enzyme
— the molecular machine that does the real work.
The enzyme grabs glutamate units, one after another, and
stitches them into a long chain — gamma-P-G-A. This
is the polymer that becomes our crust.
But the cell also carries genes whose enzymes chew that
chain back up. So we knock those scissors out.
With no scissors, the gamma-P-G-A no longer gets cut back —
so it piles up, and the crust gets what it needs.
Gene, message, enzyme, polymer — four steps, tracked in time. That is how
a line of code in the DNA turns into glue in the sand.